README.md, before:

# print-and-do

Based on [runbook.py](https://github.com/UnquietCode/runbook.py) by UnquietCode.

Main changes: 
* Methods are not invoked before getting to the specific step
* * Enables each step to perform operations at the correct time 

Inspired by [this blog post](https://blog.danslimmon.com/2019/07/15/do-nothing-scripting-the-key-to-gradual-automation)
by Dan Slimmon.

Define your own run-book in a class extending from `Runbook`. Every method that
doesn't begin with an underscore is read in as a step to be completed, in order.
The step name will be built from the method name, and the description is taken
either from the method's own docstring or from any data returned from invoking
the method.

# Installation

In print-and-do directory
```
pip install .
```


# Example 
In example/my-first-pad.py you will find a simple example.

Run it with 

```
python3 example/my-first-pad.py
```

```python
from runbook import Runbook


class CustomRunbook(Runbook):
   
    def first_step(self):
        """
        Do ABC now.
        """
    
    def second_step():
        """
        Do EFG then wait 1 hour.
        """

    def third_step():
        task = "reboot"
        return f"perform a {task}"
    
    @staticmethod
    def last_step():
        """Everything ok?"""
```

Every `Runbook` object comes with a default main method that you can use to execute the script.

```python
if __name__ == '__main__':
    CustomRunbook.main()
```

The run-book object can also be instantiated and run directly.

```python
book = CustomRunbook(file_path="path/to/file")
book.run()
```

**You should avoid using the step names `run` and `main`**, which are already defined. If you need to override these
methods to define custom behavior then that is fine.

As steps are completed, the results are written out to a log file. You can set a custom log file path by passing
an argument to main, as in:

```
python3 my_runbook.py output.log
```

When reusing the same log file, already completed steps will be skipped. Any new steps found in the `Runbook`
and not already in the log will be processed as normal, with results appended to the end of the file.

### License

print-and-do (LemurP): Licensed under the MIT License

runbook.py (UnquietCode): Licensed under the Apache Software License 2.0 (ASL 2.0).

Commit message:

Add minimal working example of standalone print-and-do script

README.md, after:

# print-and-do

Based on [runbook.py](https://github.com/UnquietCode/runbook.py) by UnquietCode.

Main changes: 
* Methods are not invoked before getting to the specific step
* * Enables each step to perform operations at the correct time 

Inspired by [this blog post](https://blog.danslimmon.com/2019/07/15/do-nothing-scripting-the-key-to-gradual-automation)
by Dan Slimmon.

Define your own run-book in a class extending from `Runbook`. Every method that
doesn't begin with an underscore is read in as a step to be completed, in order.
The step name will be built from the method name, and the description is taken
either from the method's own docstring or from any data returned from invoking
the method.

# Installation

In print-and-do directory
```
pip install .
```


# Example 
In example/my-first-pad.py you will find a simple example.

Run it with 

```
python3 example/my-first-pad.py
```

```python
from runbook import Runbook


class CustomRunbook(Runbook):
   
    def first_step(self):
        """
        Do ABC now.
        """
    
    def second_step():
        """
        Do EFG then wait 1 hour.
        """

    def third_step():
        task = "reboot"
        return f"perform a {task}"
    
    @staticmethod
    def last_step():
        """Everything ok?"""
```

Every `Runbook` object comes with a default main method that you can use to execute the script.

```python
if __name__ == '__main__':
    CustomRunbook.main()
```

The run-book object can also be instantiated and run directly.

```python
book = CustomRunbook(file_path="path/to/file")
book.run()
```

**You should avoid using the step names `run` and `main`**, which are already defined. If you need to override these
methods to define custom behavior then that is fine.

As steps are completed, the results are written out to a log file. You can set a custom log file path by passing
an argument to main, as in:

```
python3 my_runbook.py output.log
```

When reusing the same log file, already completed steps will be skipped. Any new steps found in the `Runbook`
and not already in the log will be processed as normal, with results appended to the end of the file.


## Standalone version

A super-simple do nothing script is included in example/standalone.
This script has no dependencies to the project, so it can be copied over and run without any installation.

Using the standalone version is preferred to get a feel for what a do nothing script can accomplish, or when you don't want to install a whole package or download the entire repository to do something.


### License

print-and-do (LemurP): Licensed under the MIT License

runbook.py (UnquietCode): Licensed under the Apache Software License 2.0 (ASL 2.0).
